[term entry] Regression (#6226)
Codecademy/docs: content/ai/concepts/machine-learning/terms/regression/regression.md

---

> Title: "Regression"
> Descripton: "Explains the term regression in the context of machine learning.  Provides a simple example in Python."
> Subjects:
> - "Machine Learning"
> - "Mathematics"
> - "Python"
> Tags:
> - "Machine Learning"
> - "Mathematics"
> - "Python"
> - "Regression"
> CatalogContent:
> - "Learn Git & GitHub"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Title: 'Regression'
Descripton: 'Regression models relationships between variables to predict a dependent variable based on one or more independent variables.'
Subjects:
  - 'AI'
  - 'Data Science'
  - 'Machine Learning'
Tags:
  - 'Machine Learning'
  - 'Python'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
```

---

> **Regression is a mathematical process applied to data.   The aim is to identify the function that represents data occurrence in the best possible manner.  
> In the context of machine learning the function identified with a regression technique can be used for predictive purposes.**  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Regression** is a mathematical process used to model data by identifying a function that best represents its patterns. In machine learning, regression functions are used for predictive analysis.
```

> There are many different regression techniques.  The choice of the appropriate technique depends on the circumstances at hand, such as data distribution.  
> A simple form of regression is linear regression.  Here the data is represented by the function:  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are various regression techniques, and the choice depends on factors such as data distribution. A simple form is linear regression, represented by the equation:
```

y = a*x + b  

> This function can be drawn as a line on a 2 dimensional graph:  
> y is the outcome variable on the y axis (vertical);    
> x is the predictor variable on the x axis (horizontal);  
> the intercept is the value of y (outcome) if x is set to zero (hence intercept = b);  
> the slope is the variation of the outcome y if the predictor x is increased by one unit.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This equation can be visualized as a straight line on a 2D graph:

- `y`: The dependent (outcome) variable, plotted on the y-axis (vertical).
- `x`: The independent (predictor) variable, plotted on the x-axis (horizontal).
- `b`: The intercept, representing the value of y when x = 0.
- `a`: The slope, indicating how y changes when x increases by one unit.
```

> ### A simple example in Python:  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example
```

> The following code predicts a person's weight based on a person's height.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The following code predicts a person's weight based on a person's height:

```

> ```python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```py
```

import pandas as pd
import statsmodels.api as sm
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

# Provided data
heights = [150, 152, 160, 172, 176, 176, 180, 189]
weights = [50, 65, 65, 70, 80, 90, 90, 89]

# Create a DataFrame
measurements = pd.DataFrame({'height': heights, 'weight': weights})

# Fit the linear regression model
model = sm.OLS.from_formula("weight ~ height", data=measurements)
results = model.fit()

# Print the summary of the model
print(results.summary())

# Plot the data and the regression line
plt.scatter(measurements['height'], measurements['weight'], label='Data')
plt.plot(measurements['height'], results.predict(measurements), color='red', label='Regression Line')
plt.xlabel('Height (cm)')
plt.ylabel('Weight (kg)')
plt.title('Height vs Weight with Regression Line')
plt.legend()
plt.show()

> ``` 

Reviewer: can you explain the code a bit? And also can you add the output image in the **media** folder in docs.

Author: Hi Mamta; thank you for your comment.  I accepted the proposed changes and updated my fork and local repo.  Quick check as I am a novice:  a) I will update my local regression.md file to explain the code a little bit, followed by a new PR, and b) I will make a new PR to add the output graph (image) to the media folder in docs.  Is my understanding correct?

Reviewer: Hey @2mjlux, you will make the changes in your local repo, while being on the same branch as this PR. The branch for this PR is `regression`. And once the changes have been made, u will push the changes. No new PR is to be created, changes are to be made in this PR itself 😄
